Knee Replacement Surgery
As it enables you to move both your upper and lower leg, your knee is one of your most important joints. If you are experiencing pain in your knee, you should see a doctor. An injury, infection, or wear and tear can all lead to discomfort in the knee. It could be because of damage to the bone and cartilage. Your physician may recommend knee replacement surgery if the pain persists or is brought on by severe arthritis, which is one of the most common causes of joint pain.
There are two primary types of surgery:
when your knee joint is replaced on both sides in a total knee replacement.
A partial (half) knee replacement is an operation in which only one side of the joint is replaced.

Recovery from a knee replacement is the most important part of a successful surgery. The post-surgery treatment will include modifications to one's diet and exercises for the knee replacement.
Post-surgery therapy includes activities that strengthen your muscles and improve knee movement as well as pain management for total knee replacement patients.
Exercises For A Better Recovery Post TKR Surgery
You might gain a better understanding of your orthopaedic surgeon-supervised exercise and activity program and physical therapy with the help of this information. Prior to rehearsing any of the activities, talk with your advisor or specialist to ensure your wellbeing.

1.	While lying in bed, try to straighten your knee and hold it for a few seconds. Throughout the day, do this exercise several times.
2.	While you are lying on your back, move your foot up and down. This exercise, which should be done two to three times an hour, reduces swelling.
3.	Another important workout involves lifting your legs. Lie down with your legs straight. One at a time, raise your legs a few inches above the bed. Before carefully repositioning your leg on the bed, hold the position for five to ten seconds.
4.	You can get around the house with the help of crutches. Ensure you're not overwhelming your knees. As you get better, start out slowly and gradually increase the number of times you walk.
5.	Strength preparing is fundamental for knee substitution restoration. Bend your legs while standing to build strength. Move on to assisted knee bends as soon as you feel strong enough. While performing knee bends, this requires applying pressure with a towel or cloth.
6.	While lying on your back, bend your knee. Maintain the position for about ten seconds. You will be able to regain knee motion if you do this exercise again.
7.	Your doctor will instruct you to begin climbing stairs a few weeks after your operation. Take the stairs at first with your crutches. Remove the crutches and gradually ascend the steps when you feel stronger. Verify that the stairs are not too steep.
8.	After nine to ten weeks, you can start cycling when you feel strong enough. It is a great exercise for building and strengthening muscles, especially those around the knee.
Takeaway

You might be concerned about how bad your surgery will make you feel. It is absolutely normal to experience pain after surgery. In fact, exercise is essential for pain management. If you continue to experience pain and swelling, please see a doctor.
Given our lifestyle choices, knee replacement surgeries are almost always required in this day and age. Knee torment is not generally restricted to the old; Knee pain often starts in childhood for many people.
People who have had persistent injuries to their knees can live their lives without having to give up the ability to move their knees.

Do you need knee replacement surgery? Make a meeting with us at the SaiShree. We will collaborate with you to select the most effective treatment for your knee and return you to pain-free living.

Web-  total knee replacement surgery - saishree hospital 
